we will be trying to solve a classification problem of whether a stock will outperform the US stock market (as measured by S&P 500 Index, or another major index). This an important problem quantitative finance pertaining to modern portfolio theory, (trying to build a high-return low-risk portfolio), that many people have been working on for years with mixed results. 
The unique approach we are hoping to take, is to incorporate analyst ratings into a prior. Research professionals at trading brokerages provide ratings on companies to help investors choose stocks. The vocabulary varies between companies, but almost all use a 1-5 scale, where a 5 indicates a “strong buy”, 1 indicates “strong sell” and 3 indicates hold. Jon has access to an aggregate analyst rating, provided as a service from his trading brokerage. This data lists a company and how many analysts provide each rating now and across the past 3 months. For example Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN) currently has 13 strong buy (5) ratings, and 1 hold (3) rating, for an average rating of 4.86, and had the same rating 3 months ago. These ratings seem like an appropriate prior, since we are trying to incorporate “expert” opinions and previous research on stocks into our Bayesian inference. We will assume a gaussian prior with a mean of the average analyst rating. 
There are a few limitations of using this data however. First it will need to be manually obtained; since this is not public data, there is no good API or free pre-processed dataset. Given this limitation, we will not be using a massive dataset (i.e. not all stocks), but rather attempt to prove the concepts using a sample of companies. Possible ideas are to use either the Dow 30 companies, or 30 companies randomly selected from the S&P 500 index. The other limitation is that many analysts do not rate small- or micro-cap companies, since there are so many of them and they are bought less frequently. As a result, this inference would only be relevant to mid-, large-, and mega-cap companies, which on average tend under-perform small cap companies, likely leading to some bias. 
For our likelihood data, we will be using stock return data (date and return of stock on given date). This can be easily obtained from a number of sites such Yahoo! Finance, and there are many free existing programs for Matlab and R to assist with this data acquisition. We will be benchmarking performance against the stock market, so we will additionally obtain stock index data, which can be used to normalize the individual stock return data. A sensible probability family for this would be a Bernoulli distribution, although this choice will be investigated further.
In terms of Bayesian Methodology, we will do a Bayesian logistic regression, with priors and likelihood as described above, with classifications being “outperform the market” and “underperform the market”. As we learned in class, this is commonly intractable when a Gaussian prior is used, so we will attempt to simulate using Monte Carlo Methods. Time dependent, we could additionally extend this problem into a prediction problem, where we derive the predictive distribution (i.e. on date x in the future, how would we classify the stock) of the classification posterior. 


